Know it's time to meet Rabbitt them cute self.
Let's start by the top of the line features of Rabbitt MQ and build on top of with the architectural
appearance of the system itself.
Rub it in.
Q is a powerful open source message broker and also known as a message oriented middleware.
Dewpoint of having a open source message broker is that is being built by the community itself.
It is by far the most popular implementation of Amcu.
When you check out the job listings and the online blogs for message queue implementations and questions
and answers in blocks you'll see dead rabbit.
MQ is the most popular implementation and by far you can find most of the examples of implementation
ways of things in the message in ways rabid enqueue provides a robust and flexible messaging platform
designed to inter operate with other messaging systems so you can plug and play and Cupie providers
using rabbit in Q.
This is one of the most powerful features of rabbit name.
Q And as we saw with our previous examples you can simply plug different kinds of applications different
language of applications with rabid MQ with its Broecker Rapidan.
Q Is that all about using Erlang programming language so it Bellson its high throughput and low latency
Erlang.
If you don't know is a very powerful language and Robert MQ message Brooke where technology is built
around it.
So having the Amcu as the underlying technology and being built by Erlang rabbit MQ is a very powerful
message Broecker rabbit MQ also supports clustering for whole tolerance and scalability so in case that
you think a single rubbered MQ broker is not good for your business then you can simply cluster different
rubbered MQ brokers and have a highly available and highly scalable system for your message processing.
It's a very common use case when dealing with messaging systems and especially with rubidium.
Q It is almost a best practice rabbit him.
Q And with the help of its Amcu protocol defines Xchange queues and bindings between them.
So these are pretty fundamental concepts all Rabbitte MQ and the cume mechanism behind it.
We're of course going to talk much more about these technologies and the architectures behind these.
So just hold on for a minute.
Rub it in.
Q allows multiple connection channels inside a just a single TCAP connection in order to remove the
overhead of opening a large number of TCAP connections to the message broker.
This is a huge advantage considering other message cream protocols by using a single TCAP connection
you're not working hard on your network bandwidth and you're delegating the management of message processing
to Rabbitte MQ and you're not thinking about the overhead
Nola's take a look at the rabbit.
Q From an architectural standpoint.
So we of course have publishers to publish messages to our messaging.
Q A rabbit named Q in the arcades.
These publishers are simply publishing their messages to some exchange.
It be a default exchange or some other exchange that they define.
They just publish their messages inside it.
There are default or your own defined exchange in Rabbitte name.
Q And just don't worry about it.
We're going to get there.
And after data of course we have subscribers Dadar listening for those messages either with a specific
topic or a specific keyword.
They're just listening and maybe they're just not listening for some specific words they might be listening
through everything.
So in that case they received those messages from the cues of the message broker of rabbit.
MQ the messages coming to the exchanges are being delivered to cues.
Why using some kind of bindings these bindings are definers of exchange and queue connections.
For example you define your exchange and bind it to some q using a binding.
You can even bind the next change to multiple queues and make your messages transfer to multiple queues
and being listened by multiple subscribers even for publishers exchange are the starting point and their
messages are being published to exchange.
And for the subscriber part they only care about the queues.
The queues are the most important part for them.
They listened to cues and they listened to the messages from publishers publish to exchange and then
with the binding they received the messages from the queue itself.
They don't know about the exchange.
They just know about the queue because of the architecture of the rabbit.
Q
So this is a basic diagram of what's going on when you try to use Raben MQ or the general look general
overview of things going on inside the MQ and from the publisher side and from the subscriber side roof
Gorst going to dig deep into Rabbitte name.
Q And publishers and subscribers in our applications.
But for the starting point these are the fundamental actors in Rabbitte MQ world that you should know
about.